# oop-programs_with_interesting_classes-hard-q6

- Java question

# Question Text

Card games are a fun pastime between friends and family. In a game called "War", two players flip a card and the one 
with the bigger card wins. Below is a test class called `War` which shuffles a deck of cards, deals one to each of 
the two players, and checks who has the highest card. This game repeats if the user wants to play again. Your task is
to complete the `Card` and `DeckOfCards` classes in this question. More details below.

### Card Class

Your `Card` class must have the following requirements:

- Attributes:
    - an `int` attribute called **rank**
    - a `String` attribute called **suit**
    - all of these attributes must not be accessible from another class

- Constructor:
    - The constructor should accept an `int` and a `String` in that order to initialize the **rank** and **suit** 
      attributes.
    - The constructor should be accessible from another class.

- Methods:
    - All the following methods should be visible from another class.
    - A `getRank` method which returns the **rank** attribute.
    - A `getSuit` method which returns the **suit** attribute.
    - An `isBiggerThan` method which accepts a `Card` parameter and returns a `boolean`. It should check if its own 
      **rank** is greater than the **rank** of the passed `Card` and return the result of that comparison. Note: 
      aces are high in War so `1` should beat `13`.
    - A `toString` method which returns a `String` in the form of "x of y" where x is the value of **rank** with `1`
      rendered to `A`, `11` rendered to `J`, `12` to `Q`, and `13` to `K`, and y is the value of **suit**.

## DeckOfCards Class

### Attributes

- All of these attributes must not be accessible from another class
- An `int` attribute called **maxRanks** which should be initially set to `13`.
- An `int` attribute called **maxSuits** which should be initially set to `4`.
- An `int` attribute called **maxCards** which should be initially set to the value of **maxRanks** multiplied
  by **maxSuits**. Because some games of war are played with a shortened deck these values should be used to constrain
  `Card`s generated by the methods.
- A `Card[]` attribute called **deck**.
- An `int` attribution called **pos**.

### Constructor

- The constructor must be visible from another class.
- This constructor accepts not parameters and initializes **deck** to an empty array of size **maxCards** and **pos**
  to `0`.

### Methods

### Set Max Ranks
- A method that returns nothing and is accessible to other classes called `setMaxRanks`
- This method should accept an `int` as a parameter and use it to set the **maxRanks** attribute. Because **maxRanks**
  dictates the value of **maxCards** recalculate the value of **maxCards** and use it to reinitialize the **deck** array.
- If it is given a value greater than 13, it should instead print "Invalid value" and maintain its original value.

### Set Max Suits
- A method that returns nothing and is accessible to other classes called `setMaxSuits`
- This method should accept an `int` as a parameter and use it to set the **maxSuits** attribute. Because **maxSuits**
  dictates the value of **maxCards** recalculate the value of **maxCards** and use it to reinitialize the **deck** array.
- If it is given a value greater than 4, it should instead print "Invalid value" and maintain its original value.

#### Shuffle Cards

- A method that returns nothing, accepts no parameters and is accessible to other classes called `shuffleCards`.
- This method must fill the **deck** array with unique `Card` objects under the constraints of the **maxRanks**
  and **maxSuits** values. With unique meaning no two `Card` objects in the **deck** can share both the same **suit**
  and **rank**.
- Each time `shuffleCards` is called it should randomly generate the order of the `Card` objects.
- To accomplish the randomness while maintaining the uniqueness property of the objects you must keep track in the
  method which combinations have already been generated.
- If the values of **maxSuits** or **maxRanks** would be lowered (and therefore the size of **deck** with them) this
  method should still be able to function correctly.

#### Map Suit To String

- A helper method that returns a `String` and is not accessible from other classes called `mapSuitToString`.
- This method should accept an `int` as a parameter, map it into one of the four possible suit values, and return
  the converted value.
- `1` should be mapped to `"Spades"`, `2` to `"Hearts"`, `3` to `"Clubs"`, and `4` to `"Diamonds"`.
- This method should be used to help in the random creation of `Card` objects in the `shuffleCards` method.
 
#### Deal

- A method that returns a `Card` and is accessible from other classes called `deal`.
- This method should accept no parameters.
- The `deal` method must check if the **pos** value is less than the **MAX_CARDS** value. If so, return the `Card`
  in **deck** at the index **pos** and increment **pos**. Otherwise, print "There are no more cards left in the deck."
  and return null.

#### To String

- A `toString` method which returns a `String`.
- It should utilize the `Card` `toString` method to display each `Card` followed by a line break in the `String`. There \
  should be no additional spaces on each line.
- ```
  Sample output:
  "K of Spades
  4 of Diamonds
  ...
  9 of Spades
  
  ```
